=head1 NAME

arget, argrep, arinfo - CLI tools to query Channel Archiver

=head1 SYNOPSIS

arinfo [common options]

argrep [common options] <regex pattern>

arget [common options] [get options] <pv names...>

arget [common options] -E hdf5 [get options] <hdf file[:path]> <pv names...>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

These utilities will attempt to contact a Channel Archiver Data Server
using the HTTP protocol.  The server configuration is determined by
a configuration file and the B<-u> argument.

I<arinfo> serves the purpose of listing which archive sections will
by queries by default, or with a given set of B<-a> options.

I<argrep> serves to find which PVs in the given archive sections
match the given regular expression.

I<arget> retrieves data and can either write it to the screen, or an HDF5 file.

=head1 OPTIONS

=head2 Common Options

=over 2

=item B<-h>, B<--help>

Show help message

=item B<-I>, B<-S>, B<-G>

Select operation to perform.  Normally this is implicit in the executable name.
I<arinfo> is a synonym for I<arget -I>.

=item B<-C> I<CONFIG>, B<--conf>=I<CONF>

Specify a configuration file section name.

=item B<-a> I<NAME>, B<--archive>=I<NAME>

Search the named archive section.  Can be given more than once to add additional archives.
When given the default archive section specification is overridden.

=item B<-v>, B<--verbose>

Print more information.  May be given up to 3 times.

=back

=head2 Get Options

=over 2

=item B<-s> I<TIME>, B<--start>=I<TIME>, B<-e> I<TIME>, B<--end>=I<TIME>

For I<arget>, specify start and end times to use for the query.  If not specified then
the current system time is used.  One of these must always be given or the query will
return no data.

See the section TIMES for information on the formats recognised.

=item B<-T> I<FMT>, B<--time>=I<FMT>

Time format in text output.  Supported formats are 'string' or 'posix' (floating point).

=item B<-c> I<NUM>, B<--count>=I<NUM>

Limit the total number of samples returned to this number.  0 may be given to retrieve
all samples. However, care should be taken when doing this as it may return a lot of data.

=item B<-l> I<NUM>, B<--chuck>=I<NUM>

I<arget> may make several queries to fetch all of the requested data.
This option specifies the number of points to request for each of these queries.
The default will usually be sufficient for scalar PVs.  However, for large waveforms
if may not.  If the server reports 500 errors then try setting a smaller chunk size.

This option does not effect the data returned.

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

List all available archive sections.  Override any default pattern which may be set.

 $ arinfo -a '*'
 section1
 section2
 ...

Search for some PVs having 'Dev1' or 'Dev2' in the name.

 $ argrep -a 'section*' 'Dev[12]'
 X:Dev1:Set
 X:Dev2:Set
 ...

To get information on available time ranges for each PV.

 $ argrep -v Dev1:Set
 ...
 2012-04-10 14:41:11.999682 , 2012-10-15 02:02:15.933004 , X:Dev1:Set

Or get a further breakdown by archive section.

 $ argrep -vv Dev1:Set
 ...
 X:Dev1:Set
   2012-04-10 14:41:11.999682 , 2012-10-15 02:00:21.288242 , section1
   2012-10-15 02:02:15.571932 , 2012-10-15 02:02:15.933004 , section3

To retrieve and print up to 1000 points in the given time range.

 $ arget -s '2012-10-15 01:50:0.0' -e '2012-10-15 02:10:00' -c 1000 X:Dev1:Set
 X:Dev1:Set
 2012-10-15 01:49:57.838879 -14.0
 ...

Or write all points of in this time range to an HDF5 file.

 $ arget -E hdf5 -s '2012-10-15 01:50:0.0' -e '2012-10-15 02:10:00' -c 0 file.h5:/group X:Dev1:Set

=head1 TIME FORMAT

The time and date formats understood by the B<--start> and B<--end> arguments can be absolute time as

 YYYY-MM-DD HH:MM:SS[.fff]

 DD/MM[/YYYY] HH:MM[:SS[.fff]]

 HH:MM[:SS[.fff]]

When part of the date is omitted then the current day is used.  When part of the time is omitted then zero is used
for these parts.

 ### UUU [### UUU ...]

where ### is a signed floating point number, and UUU is a unit string.

Supported unit strings
  
  us
  ms
  s, sec, secs, second, seconds
  m, min, mins, minute, minutes
  h, hrs, hour, hours
  d, day, days
  w, week, weeks


Relative times can also be specified according to the following rules.

If both B<--start> and B<--end> are relative then they are taken to be in relation
to the current system time.

If only B<--start> is relative then it is taken as relative to the absolute end time.

If only B<--end> is relative then, if end >0 it is taken in relation to the absolute start time.
However, if <0 it is taken as relative to the current system time.

The following example retrieves 00:00 through 04:00 on 24 March of the current year.

 $ arget -s '24/03' -e '4 h'...

To retrieve the last 10 minites of data.

 $ arget -s '-10 min' ...

=head1 HDF5 LAYOUT

The HDF5 file given to I<arget> will be created if it does not exist.  If it does exist it will be added to
if the new data has a timestamp later then any which is currently stored.

When invoking I<arget> an additional argument is given with the filename.  This has the form 'filename:/group'.
If group is omitted then '/' is used.  For each PV to be stored a sub-group is created with two datasets
'value' and 'meta'.

 /group/<pv name>/value
 /group/<pv name>/meta

The 'meta' dataset is a compound type (structure) which four members: severity, status, sec, and ns.
These are copied verbatim from the data received from the data server.  The field 'sec' is relative to
Posix Epoch (1 Jan 1970).

The 'value' dataset is an MxN of type string, int32, or float64.  M is the sample number and is matched
with a corresponding entry in 'meta'.  N is the index in the value of a single sample.  N is choosen
to hold the longest returned value.

=head1 CONFIG FILES

Several files are read for configuration parameters.  The order in which they are read is:

 1) /etc/carchive.conf
 2) $HOME/.carchiverc
 3) $PWD/carchiver.conf

Values read from each file override values from previous files or defaults.

See /etc/carchive.conf.example for available options.

=head1 AUTHOR

Michael Davidsaver <mdavidsaver@bnl.gov>

=cut
